And with that,
I would like to introduce Becky Willrich,
and she'll talk about modern
networking using CFNetwork.
Hi, I'm Becky Willrich.
I'm the technical lead for CFNetwork,
and I'll be talking to you
about how you can use CFNetwork
in a Mac OS X application.
What we're going to cover
today is we'll start out with
an introduction and overview.
We're going to breeze through that
pretty fast because I figure that's
review for most everybody at this point.
We're going to talk about
what's new in Tiger.
In particular,
we're going to highlight two new classes,
CFNet Diagnostics and
CFHTTP Authentication.
Then we're going to look at a couple
common CFNetwork tasks that we know
from feedback from you as something
you want a little more guidance with.
We're going to look at how you
manage proxies using CFNetwork
and how you can use CFNetwork to
perform asynchronous host lookups.
Finally, at the end,
we're going to wrap up by
comparing CFNetwork with some of
the other URL loading APIs on the
system and help you figure out
which one is most appropriate for
the programming task you have.
So I'm going to dive straight into
the introduction and overview now.
What we're going to do is start out
by talking about what is CFNetwork,
and then we're going to look
and see how CFNetwork fits into
the Mac OS X stack as a whole.
And then finally, we're going to look at
the feature set in depth.
So, CFNetwork is chock full
of networky goodness.
I have this on high
authority from a coworker.
What CFNetwork is,
is a framework that provides
high-level APIs for a number of
different internet protocols,
and I listed them here.
Well, what do I mean by high-level?
I mean higher level than BSD sockets.
I do not mean high-level like, you know,
just give me the URL and go do
some magic and give me the data.
It's not that high-level,
but it is better than sockets.
It's better than managing select
yourself and parsing yourself.
We also provide support for advanced
features like proxies and authentication,
so you don't have to
program those yourself.
One of our goals is to provide
web compatibility because,
you know, wonder of wonders,
not every server out there
is actually HTTP compliant.
We do our best to provide full
access to those servers anyway.
And it's worth noting that
the HTTP engine that underlies
Safari is in fact CFNetwork.
So every time you download a
URL off the web using Safari,
you're going through CFNetwork code.
CFNetwork's APIs are all in the
style of core foundation that
has two important consequences.
The first one is that you're
constantly using CF types.
So you're going through
the whole CF retain,
CF release, reference counting thing.
We use a couple types from
core foundation pretty heavily,
CF read stream and CF write stream.
We also add new types in CFNetwork.
Those are all CF types as well.
I listed three common ones here, CF host,
CF net services, CF html, and CF network.
All introduced in CFNetwork,
all also CF types.
The other important consequence
of having an API based on core
foundation is that we produce all
of our asynchrony using CF run loop.
So the advantage of that is that
it fits in very easily with your
application's natural event model.
Carbon events and NS run loop are
both built on top of CF run loop.
So CFNetwork fits in very naturally with
your application's natural event model.
However,
it also means that if you want to
use CFNetwork to its best effect,
you are going to need to understand
CF run loop to program it effectively.
That's not going to be
important for this talk,
but just to warn you,
when you get into the code itself,
you're going to want to have a
good understanding of CF run loop.
So I said before, CFNetwork is not this
convenience API where you hand
over the URL and you're like,
please just download the data.
I don't want to know the details.
There are APIs on the
system that do that for you,
but CFNetwork is not it.
Pardon me.
So for example, we do not automatically
apply any settings for you.
CFNetwork is intended to be a power
API where you go through and explicitly
set each bit and flag that you are
interested to customize the process.
The other part of the goal is
to expose the full power of the
protocols that it implements.
So you can very explicitly turn on
and off every individual feature
of the protocol you're using.
Now, the upside is that you do
in fact have full control.
The downside is that you really need
to have some understanding of the
protocol before you're going to be
able to use CFNetwork to good effect.
So here's an architecture
diagram of Mac OS X.
You guys have probably seen
this a few million times by now.
Darwin, our Unix implementation,
is the Core OS.
And then we have various layers
of libraries all the way up to
the applications at the top.
CFNetwork fits into this
core services layer.
So that's below the graphics layer
at the point where all of the
basic services that pretty much
every process on the system uses,
unless it's a pure Unix process.
And if you look specifically at
the networking pieces in the stack,
here's how they line up.
CFNetwork is what's available
at the core services layer.
It's built on top of Berkeley SOPCITS,
TCP/IP,
Rendezvous and DNS implementations,
all available from the
Core OS Darwin layer.
Not much going on in the networking
world at the application services layer,
which isn't surprising.
That's where the graphics and
user event pieces are added.
But then above in the
application framework layers,
NSURL and WebKit become available.
And then built on top
of all of this stack,
you'll see all of the major
networking apps on our system,
like iChat, Sherlock, Safari, Mail,
iTunes.
So specifically,
what feature set does CFNetwork provide?
Well, first of all,
it provides an abstraction
for TCP socket streams.
We went beyond supporting basic TCP,
though, to add in support for
TLS and SSL and SOX proxies.
CFHost gives you access to DNS,
and in particular,
provides asynchronous host resolution.
Then we have streams to support
both the HTTP and the FTP protocols.
CFNet Services is your
API into Rendezvous.
CFNet Diagnostics is new,
and we'll talk about it
some more in a little bit.
And then, of course,
we have integrated proxy
support at all these layers,
so that if you need to
apply a proxy setting,
you can do that.
That's as much of an
overview as I want to give.
And from here, I'm going to dive into
what's new in Tiger.
I've already said that
we have two new types,
CFNet Diagnostics and
CFHTTP authentication.
We also have some new
CFNet services APIs,
and we have some new settings on
socket streams specifically to allow
you to customize SSL and TLS sessions.
So what is CFNet diagnostics?
The basic scenario is this.
You're in the middle of
some networking task,
and for some reason it's not working.
You don't know why.
You just get an error
code back from a download,
for instance,
or some kind of a POSIX error that
tells you that the network has gone bad.
How do you report that back to
the user in some meaningful way,
and how do you help the user
move along to fix the problem
so that your program can work?
CFNet diagnostics provides an
easy interface for you to lead
the user through these tasks.
The user just did not enter
the right thing in the network
system preferences panel.
CFNet Diagnostics gives you a way
to prompt the user about the problem
and then move through it and help
the user to correct the problem.
Looks like this.
So what would happen is you would
encounter this network failure.
You'd lead the user to this panel,
essentially.
And this panel would go through the
five steps you see on the left to
try and determine what's gone wrong.
Once it hits a problem
in the network settings,
it tells the user about it and tells
them what they can do to correct it.
Once the user's corrected it,
it goes further to tell the user
that the situation's been corrected.
So what's the advantage
of CFNet diagnostics?
Well, the biggest advantage is you
don't have to write the code.
But the second biggest advantage is it
provides a uniform interface to the user.
It allows you, the programmer,
to easily query what the
network connectivity status is.
Is the network functioning
properly or not?
And if it's not,
it gives you a localized string
that you can present directly to the
user to explain what's gone wrong.
Having done that,
it further leads the user
to that panel we just saw,
so that the user can then go and try
and correct the problem themselves.
There is sample code available
showing how CFNet diagnostics works.
Unfortunately, due to a mastering error,
it does not appear at this
path on your Tiger CD.
However, it is included,
along with every other sample code
piece that I'm going to talk about,
in the disk image for this session.
So I encourage you to download
the disk image for the session and
grab the sample code from there.
So how's it going to
look in your application?
It's actually a very simple, minimal API.
And what I've got here are the
three lines of code that you're
going to need to add to your program
to integrate CFNet diagnostics.
You can see at the top what we've done
is we've read bytes from a stream,
and we got a negative one return,
which tells us that
an error has occurred.
So where do we go from there?
Well, it's pretty straightforward.
We take the failed read stream,
the read stream that
we could not read from,
and instantiate a net
diagnostic object from it.
Having done that,
we call net diagnostic copy network
status to retrieve an error string
that we can now display to the user.
And we're going to display
it in some kind of an alert
panel that has an OK button to
just dismiss it and continue,
and a diagnose button to lead the
user to further perform diagnosis.
If the user clicks the diagnose button,
we're going to call
this line at the bottom,
diagnose problem interactively.
That's going to return immediately.
From your program's point of view,
but from the user's point of view,
it's going to launch another application
and bring up a panel that will help
the user start to diagnose the problem.
So that's Net Diagnostics,
and now I'm going to move on to
talk some about HTTP authentication.
We've had authentication support for
HTTP in CFNetwork for a long time now,
at least a couple, three years.
However, we've made some substantial
changes in Tiger.
Historically,
HTTP authentication has supported
basic and digest schemes.
Since I last talked
to you here last year,
we've added support for NTLM and Spanago,
which are a couple schemes that
are common in the Windows world.
And the existing old API,
the one that's been available for years,
was designed for
single-shot transactions.
You'd issue a request and get
back an authentication challenge.
Once you get the challenge,
you call the old API,
it corrects the request,
you issue the request again,
and away you go.
And it worked fine.
The problem was that you don't usually
issue just one request to a server.
You usually issue 10 or 20.
And it seems a shame to have
to go through this process
for each and every request.
So that's why we added
CFH-GDP authentication in Tiger,
to allow you to carry state forward
from one request to another,
going to the same authenticating server.
So here's the old API,
CFHTTP message ad authentication.
Every request is processed individually.
Each time you receive a challenge,
you get the credentials from the user,
you apply the credentials to the request,
and then you issue the
entire request again.
And there was no persistency across
multiple requests to the same servers.
The new API uses an object,
a CFHTTP authentication object,
to carry that state across
from request to request.
And that gives you much
better performance,
particularly when you're talking to some
host that has one of these very expensive
authentication schemes that requires,
for instance,
multiple legs just to compute
keys and negotiate protocols.
So how's it going to work in code?
In code,
you're going to maintain a set of
CFH-TTP authentication objects.
When you receive an
authentication challenge,
you're going to look through the set of
objects to try and find one that applies.
If you find one, great.
If not, you're going to create one.
Once you have that object,
you apply it to the request along
with credentials from the user,
and CFNetwork will use the information
stored in that object to process the
request as efficiently as possible.
In the same way,
you can use CFNetwork to create a set
of CFH-TTP authentication objects.
When you're done,
you can use CFNetwork to create a set
of CFH-TTP authentication objects.
So here are the APIs you're
going to use along the way.
From the store of authentication objects,
you'll use CFH-GTP authentication
applies to request to find out
whether the auth object applies to
the request you're trying to handle.
If you have to create one from scratch,
you'll use create from response.
Once you have that auth object,
you need to check to see
if the object is valid.
The reason why you need to do
that is because the authentication
object may go stale over time.
Assuming it's valid,
you get the credentials from
the user or from some shared
store that you have in code.
You can use requires username and
password and requires account domain
to figure out what information
you need to collect from the user.
And then finally,
you're going to apply all of the pieces
to the request to correct the request
and prepare it for an authenticated
transaction with the server.
And you're going to do that using
apply credentials dictionary.
Now, there are a couple tricks that
you have to be aware of when
you're using HTTP authentication.
The first one is that some
authentication schemes will only
work if the subsequent requests go
out over precisely the same socket
as the initial request went out over.
So that means you have to turn
on persistent connections.
So when you're in a situation where
you're trying to handle authentication,
make sure you have persistent
connections turned on.
But further than that,
in order for the persistent connections
to be guaranteed to stay open,
you have to make sure to keep open one
stream to hold open that socket inside
CFNetwork for the subsequent requests.
So what I recommend is that as
you're going from request to request,
don't close the stream for the
old request until you've opened
the stream for the new request.
That'll guarantee that the
socket underlying the connection
will be kept open and reused.
The other thing to be aware of is that
some of the authentication schemes
require multiple legs back and forth to
the server just to negotiate hash values,
protocols, whatever.
So that means that even though
you have applied authentication
once to a particular request,
that doesn't mean that it'll
automatically work from there.
You may have to keep reapplying it over
and over again until finally the server
negotiation gets to a point where the
server's ready to return the data.
The simple rule is just keep
reapplying the authentication object
until or unless it goes invalid.
The auth object knows how
many legs are required.
It knows when the credentials are
simply wrong or when the server has
decided to shut down the transaction.
At that point,
you can fall back and figure out
how to handle a failure case.
So with that,
I'm going to switch over to the demo.
What I've got here is a simple
application which downloads URLs.
So I can type in--
www.apple.com and click start.
You can click start.
There we go.
Scared me for a moment there.
You can see that the URL was
downloaded down here.
Here we're looking at all
the text for www.apple.com.
At the top, I've just displayed a
summary of the status line.
Now, there are a couple things that are
not working properly in this demo.
The first one is that
failures are not handled in a
particularly interesting way.
So if I go to www.idontexist.net
and click start,
Thanks, Keith.
It should come back with an error code.
It should come back with a DNS error,
but it's not.
I should, it depends how quickly
the DNS server responds.
All right.
Well, suppose it came back with a
little error string right here.
[Transcript missing]
jigsaw.w3.org.
This is a little site set up
by the W3 Consortium to let
you test authentication code.
So we go there.
There we go.
And it comes back with a 401
unauthorized because we haven't
provided username and password.
Well, even if I provide the correct
username and password,
it's still going to
come back with this 401.
So what we're going to do is we're first
going to hook up NetDiagnostics so we
can give better feedback to the user,
and then we're going to add
authentication to this application.
So I'm going to quit this app and
come and look at the code here.
So this code is also on the disk image.
It's a very simple Cocoa application.
It has just one class,
DownloadController,
which is wired up to the UI.
And to integrate Net Diagnostics,
what I'm going to do is go
to the handle error method.
And here's the simple error
string that you would have seen.
It does nothing but pull the error
out of the read stream and format
it and display it in the text view.
That's not very interesting,
so we're going to get rid of it.
And we're going to replace
it with net diagnostics code.
So CFNet diagnostic ref,
let's just do diagnostics,
get CFNet diagnostics
create with streams.
Null allocator.
Stream is the instance variable
that's storing the failed read stream,
and we don't have a write stream,
so that's there.
Now we need a string ref for the errors.
Error string.
CFNet diagnostics.
Copy network status passively.
Diag at error.
Okay, so what that call is going to do is
it's going to use the diagnostics
object and ask for an error
string describing the failure.
That error string is going
to be put into error.
Now, if you're not a Cocoa programmer,
I'm going to ask you to
just take my word on this.
I'm about to add a line that's
going to run an alert panel.
NS run alert panel.
First argument is the title.
Second argument is a printf string
for the contents of the panel.
Third argument is button, default button.
Third argument is the alternate button.
So we're going to have an
alternate button of diagnose,
which if the user clicks,
we're going to use to head
off into CFNet diagnostics to
bring up that diagnostic panel.
Don't have a third button,
and finally the argument for the printf.
Okay.
So that's going to run an alert panel.
And what we're going to do
is if the result from that
is NSAlertAlternateReturn,
[Transcript missing]
And we're just going to call
CFNet diagnostic diagnose
problem interactively.
I'm really a much better
typist when I'm not on stage.
And that's it.
We're done.
Oh, except for a little cleanup.
We should release the
objects we've created.
There we go.
Oh, good.
All right.
So now let's just see what happens.
Oh yes, thank you.
And is it CF?
Ah yes, and there is no S here either.
Let's try this again.
That does not look good.
There we go.
All right.
It's just taking a little time.
So given that the DNS server doesn't
seem to be too happy with us right now,
I'm going to create a much
simpler networking failure.
That's a very simple networking failure.
Now let's see if we can
go to www.apple.com.
No, we can't.
And here's that alert panel.
It comes up and it shows us a
string chosen by CFNet Diagnostics.
The system's internet
connection appears to be down.
All right,
let's see what CFNet Diagnostics
can tell us about that.
So here's the diagnostics panel,
and it was going to go through these five
different types of networking errors,
but in fact it failed
immediately at the first one.
The built-in Ethernet is not working.
So are we trying to connect to
the internet for the first time?
No, we're not.
We're trying to configure the ethernet.
And now it says, well,
the Ethernet port's not active.
Let's check the following things.
And you'll notice in this list,
one of them is,
is the Ethernet cable plugged in?
Well, look at that.
No, it's not.
So let's just plug it back in.
Let's just plug it back in.
There we go.
And now you can see NetDiagnostics
discovered that we've corrected the
problem and is going through and checking
the remainder of our configuration.
If I go back here,
I can download Apple.com.
Now,
I have to make a little confession here.
What you're looking at up
here is pure demo ware.
If you were to build this program
on the WWDC seed that you received,
you would not see that series of panels.
Instead, you'd see a placeholder panel,
which would tell you that yes,
net diagnostics fired correctly.
It would tell you what application
had brought it up and what
the code entry point was.
But it wouldn't actually lead you
through that series of panels.
The series of panels will, of course,
be there for the final Tiger release.
We didn't have them quite
ready to where we were willing
to include them in the seed.
So for the seed,
you'll just see the placeholder panel,
which is hopefully enough to
allow you to develop your code.
So having done that,
now let's add authentication.
Authentication is a little more complex
than just using CFNet diagnostics.
To do that, I'm going to need to add
two new instance variables.
So this is the auth object that
I'm going to use to store the
current authentication state.
And I'm going to add a CF mutable
array to store the set of all
authentication pieces that I've received.
So that's the change to the header file.
Now over here in the source file,
we need a couple bookkeeping things.
First of all,
we'd better release the objects when
we're deallocated so we don't leak.
Secondly, in the stop download method,
this is what happens when the user
clicks stop or when the stream
is finally exhausted and the data
has been successfully loaded.
We need to throw out the auth
object if one exists so it's not
carried forward to future requests.
Okay, so that's the bookkeeping.
Now to actually do the work.
We have a method here, evaluate headers.
This is going to fire the
first time we get a look at the
headers back from the server.
So what we want to do is look
for an authentication failure,
which would be a status
code of 401 or 407.
And if we have such a response,
we want to attempt authentication.
So here if we got a response if
CFH-TTP message,
get response status code, response.
We're just going to deal
with 401s for the demo.
407s would be a proxy
authentication failure.
It's pretty much straightforward
in the same code for that.
So if we got a 401,
we're going to attempt authentication
and we'll pass the response we received.
And if that succeeds,
so if this method returns true,
then we're going to return no,
telling the surrounding code,
ignore the stream you've been looking at,
there's a new stream coming.
Okay, and that's it for that code.
Now all we need to do is write
this attempt authentication method.
Well,
I'm not going to force you to sit here
and watch me introduce a million typos.
I actually have that method
already written up here,
and what I'm going to do is just
uncomment it and walk you through it.
The first thing we do is look and see if
we already have an authentication object.
If not, we're going to try and find one.
And we'll do that by
walking through AuthArray.
For each item in AuthArray, we ask it,
does it apply to our request?
If so, that's still not good enough.
We want to know if it's still valid.
If it is valid, all right, great.
Then we store it in our instance
variable and break out of the loop.
Otherwise, there's no need to hold on to
invalid authentication items,
so we dispose it and do
some updating for the loop.
Once we reach,
once we're outside of that loop,
if we still don't have
an authentication object,
that means we couldn't find one.
So now we're going to create one.
So we call CFHTTP authentication
create from response.
Now, it is actually possible for a
newly created authentication
item to be invalid off the bat.
What that usually means is that the
server has chosen to send an unauthorized
response without any information
about how you can correct the error.
The server is not going
to let you authenticate,
period.
There are some other possibilities.
There could be some missing
headers in the response,
but the main one is that the server
is simply not going to let you in.
So you do have to check to make
sure that the authentication object
you just created is in fact valid.
If it is terrific,
we'll add it to the shared store.
If not, then we give up.
So now coming down here, at this point,
if we don't have an
authentication object,
we're simply not going to get one.
And we'll see at the end here
that we simply punt in that case.
However, assuming we did get an
authentication object,
we look to see if it
requires an account domain.
And if it does, again,
we're going to punt because my UI wasn't
clever enough to prompt for a domain.
That mostly means we're
giving up on NTLM.
That's the one authentication
scheme that requires a domain
in addition to username.
So in that case,
we release auth and just return no.
Otherwise, we come down into this code.
If the authentication requires
a username and password,
we go and haul it out of the UI.
And then we call HTTP message
apply credentials to apply the
authentication we've got to the request.
Assuming if that fails,
return no and bail.
Otherwise, we're going to ultimately
return yes to say that the
authentication has succeeded.
Now comes the part where we have to
deal with the problem of persistency.
We cannot dispose of the old stream
until the new stream is well established.
So right here, we do all the work of
setting up the new stream.
This is all standard CFNetwork code.
Create the new stream, set the client,
schedule it with the run loop,
set whatever properties you need,
and then open the stream.
Once we've got that stream set up,
we can now go and dispose
of the old stream,
close it, set the client to null,
unschedule and release,
and ultimately set our instance
variable to point to the new stream.
At this point, we're done,
and we can return, yes,
authentication has succeeded.
So let's see if it actually works.
Okay, so let's go to jigsaw.dub3.org,
that same test site.
So without a username and password,
Now,
it comes back with a 401 unauthorized.
But this time, when we provide the
username and password,
click Start,
We come back with a 200 OK.
And if we were to look
at the data we received,
yay, your browser made it.
Okay, but if I give the wrong
username and password,
again, we get the 401 unauthorized.
So there, in about 10 minutes,
we've added net diagnostic
capability and HTTP authentication
to a simple download application.
So if I could get back to the slides.
If I could have the slides back.
Okay, so there are a couple other
new APIs I want to mention.
We redid the CFNet services APIs.
That's the APIs that give you access
to Rendezvous via the run loop.
We redid it in Tiger,
not just because we love
making you change your code.
We did it because we needed
to fix a few problems that we
uncovered with the earlier APIs.
And at the same time,
we found that the earlier APIs were
insufficient to pick up some new
features being exposed by CFNetwork.
CoreOS.
We are deprecating the old API.
That doesn't mean that it
will suddenly stop working.
It'll still work as it always did.
But one of the big things that you'll
pick up by going to the new APIs is
better network IO performance.
So we encourage you to
transition when you're ready to.
The transition is as
simple as we could make it.
It's very nearly search and replace.
And what I've done is I've listed
here what the old calls were
and what the new calls would be.
To help you with the transition,
the release notes,
which are on the Tiger CD and also
in the disk image for this session,
give full instructions for how
to transition to the new API.
We also updated the Echo and
Echo Client examples,
which use CFNet services to
discover the client in the server,
to use the new API.
So you can look there for more examples.
There is one important difference
that I want to mention.
CFNet Service Resolve has been replaced
with CFNet Service Resolve with Timeout.
One of the reasons why is that
CFNet Service Resolve would
leave open the resolution until
it was explicitly canceled.
What we found out is that this was
completely unexpected by most people.
So, they would call Net Service Resolve,
they would get back the resolution,
so they would get back the
information they were looking for,
and then they would assume
that the Net Service was done.
Well, it wasn't.
It's still consuming bandwidth.
It's still consuming network time
until it's explicitly canceled.
So CFNet service resolve with timeout
has slightly different behavior.
It now will exit when either a
suitable address has been found
or the timeout has been reached.
And as a result, it consumes considerably
less network bandwidth.
Now, there was one legitimate time
when you would want to leave a net
service open and running forever.
You would want to do that if you
were monitoring a single net service
and waiting for changes to occur.
To address that problem,
we've added a new type,
CFNet Service Monitor.
New in Tiger,
and where you used to use a long-running
CFNet Service Resolve call together
with GET protocol-specific information
so you could find out what had
changed about that net service,
instead just use Net Service Monitor.
It has a much more efficient,
smaller network footprint
in terms of the traffic.
[Transcript missing]
The other property is
KCF Stream property SSL settings.
This is a settable property.
Its value is a dictionary.
The keys of the dictionaries are a number
of different configuration options,
which you can find in cfsocketstream.h.
And it allows you to
control how CFNetwork will
judge the peer certificate,
by and large,
and how CFNetwork will handle
the TLS or SSL handshake.
I'm not going to go through
these in huge detail.
These are all the different
properties you can set.
SSL level lets you choose TLS v1 or
SSL v3 or what kind of fallback you want.
Allows expired certificates
and allows expired routes,
allows any route,
pretty much self-explanatory.
Validates the certificate chain,
whether you want CFNetwork to even
look at the certificate chain or
whether you want to do that yourself
or you want to leave yourself wide
open to whatever the server gives you.
SSL Peer Name allows you to
set the expected name that
you're expecting to see on the
certificate from the remote side,
because you might connect by IP address,
but the certificate is going
to display a host name,
and so you'd need to set that separately.
SSL Certificates allows you to
set the certificates for your
side of the SSL transaction.
So that's what you would
use if you wanted to do
client-side certificate checking,
or if you wanted to
write a server yourself.
Speaking of servers,
you'd set SSL is server if
you were performing the server
side of the transaction,
as opposed to the client side.
Default values are all
documented in cfsocketstream.h.
In general, the defaults are for the
strongest security possible and
the maximum amount of checking.
So you would need to set these to
make the requirements more lax.
That's the new APIs that
we have available in Tiger.
Now I'm going to take a moment to talk
about a couple different CFNetwork tasks.
In particular,
we're going to talk about how you use
proxies using CFNetwork and how you
would perform an asynchronous DNS lookup.
So one of CFNetwork's strengths over
working with other networking stacks or
writing your own is that it's prepared to
handle complex combinations of proxies.
So if you look at the system settings,
the user's turned on a SOX proxy and
an HTTP proxy and an HTTPS proxy,
and you don't know which
one you're going to use,
and you're not sure how the
different communications are handled.
Well, CFNetwork does.
CFNetwork can figure out which proxy
should be applied and then do the correct
communication for that type of proxy.
However, CFNetwork's not intended
as a convenience API,
so you have to explicitly turn proxies
on to get proxy support from CFNetwork.
You're always going to do that by
calling CFReadStreamSetProperty.
And the key,
or the property you're going to set is
whatever proxy setting is appropriate
for the kind of stream you're using.
Well, so one of the questions we get is,
well, there's an HTTP proxy
and there's a SOX proxy,
but I'm working with an HTTP stream.
Do I set the SOX property,
a proxy property,
or the HTTP proxy property?
Always set the highest level.
So in that case,
you would be setting the HTTP proxy.
If you were working with an FTP stream,
you would set the FTP proxy property,
even if the proxy you're applying is SOX,
for instance.
You should also always apply the proxy
settings before opening the stream,
because we need that information
before we establish the correct socket.
And what we found is that
our developers use proxies
basically in two different ways.
Either they simply want to apply the
default system proxy configuration,
or they know that their
case is special in some way,
and they have a custom proxy server
that they wish to apply regardless of
what other settings may be present.
So here's probably the more common one.
You just want to use whatever the
current system proxy settings are.
Well, the good news is that while you
have to be explicit about this,
it's really fairly straightforward.
Just call scdynamic store copy proxies.
That will get you the default proxy
dictionary or the system proxy
dictionary out of system config
and apply it blindly to the stream.
Don't look at it.
Don't tear it apart.
Just pass the whole schmear through.
CF read stream set property, stream,
property HTTP proxy,
and the dictionary you got
back from system config.
That's it.
CFNetwork will pull the dictionary apart,
figure out what the correct settings are,
and use them.
If, on the other hand,
you need to use a custom
proxy configuration,
you're going to need to create the
custom proxy dictionary yourself.
Look in the correct stream header
file to find out what the keys are.
You're going to need a key for
the host and a key for the port,
and those are the only two keys that
you need present in your dictionary.
Some proxies, most notably SOCKS,
have some additional keys you
could set if you would like.
You can take a look at those.
Those aren't actually required.
Once you have constructed
that dictionary,
you apply it exactly the same
way by calling set property
stream HTTP proxy dictionary.
So here's what it looks like in code.
Create a mutable CFDictionary.
Set value proxy host,
whatever the host is.
Set value proxy port,
whatever the port is.
Then call CFReadStream set
property exactly as you did before.
So another task that's pretty common
that we hear about is the need to
perform an asynchronous host lookup.
What do I mean by that?
Well, you have a host name,
you want the IP address.
It's that straightforward.
And the traditional Unix calls
for this are get host by name or
the slightly newer get adder info.
But the problem with those
calls is that they're blocking.
They're going to tie up a thread,
and they're not going to return
until they have the answer.
That makes it very difficult to
process multiple host names at once.
So the solution to that
is to use CFHost instead.
CFHost is going to report
its results back to you
asynchronously via the CF run loop.
Excuse me.
That way you can have as many
open queries as you'd like.
They're all going to
happen on the same thread,
and they're all going to report
the results back asynchronously.
And incidentally,
CFHost will perform both IPv4
and IPv6 lookups for you.
Incidentally,
CFHost supports a number of other things,
too.
You can do reverse DNS lookups,
so you have the address,
you want to know the common host names.
You can use it to determine whether
a given host is reachable just now.
If for some reason you
want to use a blocking API,
you can use CFHost in that fashion,
although we always recommend
that you use the asynchronous
non-blocking API instead.
That's the power of the object.
And for our purposes here today,
we're going to focus on
just basic host lookups.
So using CFHost is pretty much the same
as using every other CFNetwork object.
You start by setting it up.
You create it, set your callback,
all of that good stuff.
Then you wait for the
callback to come in.
When the callback comes in, you field it.
And then finally, you clean up.
Every CFNetwork object
follows this basic pattern.
Set it up, wait for the events,
wait for the callbacks to come in,
and then dispose of the object.
So here's the setup.
Here we're doing a
DNS lookup of www.apple.com.
CFHost create with name, www.apple.com.
Then we need to set up
the client callback.
We use CFHost set client.
That's just how you specify what function
CFHost should call when it receives the
information that you're looking for.
Schedule it with a run loop.
Here we're scheduling it with the
current run loop in the default mode.
That tells CFHost where you
want to receive that callback.
You can schedule it on
another thread if you want.
And then having done all that setup,
you start CFHost at its work by
calling CFHost start info resolution.
And here you pass the host
object and then the type of
information you're looking for.
We're looking for the addresses,
so that's kcfhost addresses.
And you're done.
Then the run loop runs,
and at some point later,
CFHost has its answer.
Once that happens,
it's going to call your callback
on the run loop you specified.
So here we're fielding the callback.
First argument is going to be the host
object whose resolution has completed.
Second argument tells you
what resolution has completed.
We only signed up for one,
so we know what that's going to be.
Third argument is an error,
if an error has occurred.
And then finally is a context pointer,
which you could have provided
to pass information or state
around inside your own program.
To handle it, first we look at the error.
If an error has occurred,
then we're going to need to
field it in some fashion.
Assuming no error has occurred,
we can now safely call
CFHost getAddressing,
knowing that the host already
has the address available.
So that will return immediately,
providing the addresses
that it just received.
Your program will probably want
to do something more specific
or more sophisticated than this,
but just to show you how we
would get the information out,
here we get the value of
the first item in the array.
That's going to be CFDataRef.
The CFData is essentially a sock adder,
so CFData get byte pointer is going
to give you a pointer to a sock adder.
CFData get length will give you
the length of that sock adder.
You can pass it into any Unix call.
Here I'm just calling
connect to connect a socket.
Finally, we need to clean up.
Any asynchronous process is going to
require a little extra cleanup compared
to simply releasing a reference.
Basically three phases.
First, unschedule it from the run loop.
That makes sure that the run loop
releases any reference it has on the
host and that any data or state that's
being maintained by the host object
or by the run loop gets freed up.
CF host set client null tells
the host that you're done,
you don't ever want to
receive a callback again.
And then finally,
CF release releases your
reference on the host object.
And that's what I wanted to say about
those two basic CFNetworking tasks.
Now we're running a little tight on time.
So I'm going to fly
through this next section,
where we're going to talk about some of
the other URL loading APIs on the system.
The two other major URL loading
APIs on a Mac OS X system are
the Foundation URL loading
pieces and URL Access Manager.
The Foundation pieces are basically
represented by these three classes,
NSURL Request, Response, and Connection.
URL Access Manager is the
Carbon API that became available,
I think, starting in 9,
maybe a little before that,
and is now deprecated.
It has been for a couple years now.
So way back when I was talking about
how CFNetwork is intended as a power
API that exposes all of the pieces,
all of the knobs and
buttons on a given protocol.
Foundation is the convenience API.
Foundation provides a nice, smooth,
easy API to allow you to download
a URL just like a browser would.
Whatever it is that a browser
does in terms of cookies,
authentication, caching,
all of that magic is just done
automatically at the Foundation level.
So there are two consequences of that.
First, as you'd expect,
at the foundation level,
we have support for a lot more features.
Caching cookie support,
better authentication support in
the sense that there will be some
automatic credential management.
The callbacks are a little cleaner
at the foundation level than what
you saw at the CFNetwork level.
Becky Willrich
But the other consequence is that
there are a lot more constraints
because the URL loading system
has made some choices for you.
You must use an asynchronous
delegation model.
You must use the threading
model that Foundation dictates.
And you must use
Foundation scheduling policy.
So for instance,
there's no way to say download
these URLs on this thread
and these others on another.
There's no way to halt
a download in progress.
There's no way to give a
particular URL download a
higher priority than other ones.
And then just as an added note,
the foundation always
uses the system proxies.
You cannot do any custom proxy
configuration at the foundation layer.
So how do you decide which
one you're going to use?
Well, use NSURL,
use the foundation APIs if you
need the additional features.
But more generally,
use NSURL if your task is really
to download something pretty much
exactly like a browser would.
So the classic example for me of this
is when you're downloading HTML mail.
You're going to display it just the way
you would expect a browser to display it.
You want to download all the
images exactly the same way,
with the same cookies,
same authentication model
that a browser would use.
On the other hand,
use CFNetwork if you don't
want to link that high.
You don't want the extra
convenience and the extra pieces.
You don't want to link
foundation or Objective-C.
You want fine-tuned control
of the threading model.
Or more generally,
you're not doing a basic
browser-like download.
So a classic example of that is
you're downloading a software update.
You're only going to download it once.
You don't want it cached.
You know there are no cookies involved.
Whatever authentication
needs to be performed,
you already know all
the details about it.
You can use foundation to do that
kind of a download if you want,
but it's more work to go in and turn
off each and every one of those things
than to just start with CFNetwork
and do the download from there.
So then the other API,
URL Access Manager.
You should never use
URL Access Manager anymore.
Really, it's dead.
We've been saying that for
at least two years now.
And then I was thinking, well, OK,
is there any time I would recommend
that you use URL Access Manager?
Well, if you still need
compatibility with Mac OS 9,
then you're stuck.
Yeah, you're going to have to
use URL Access Manager.
But to give you a little incentive
to kind of migrate that old
code off of URL Access Manager,
I've listed here the major shortcomings
of URL Access that have been fixed
with CFNetwork and with Foundation,
but will never be fixed
in URL Access Manager.
No authenticating proxies,
no HTTPS proxies,
tied to a couple obsolete APIs,
the Thread Manager and FS specs,
and no support never will be for IPv6.
So if I want to migrate
from URL Access Manager to
CFNetwork or Foundation,
what do I need to do?
Three basic entry points
to URL Access Manager is
URL Simple Download and URL Download.
And then there's URL Open,
which is the asynchronous
API for URL Access Manager.
If you're doing a download to memory,
use these NSURL methods instead.
If you're doing a download to file,
use NSURL download.
It's designed for that purpose.
You can use CFNetwork instead of NSURL.
It takes a little more work.
I listed NSURL as the first choice
because that's the one-line replacement.
Using CFNetwork is maybe 50,
something like,
depending on how sophisticated
a download you're doing.
And there is some good sample
code available at developer.com.
to show you how to do
a CF network download.
URL open is considerably more
sophisticated and provides
a number of different flags.
So what you're going to do if
you're calling URL open depends
on why you're using URL open.
If the only reason you're using URL open
is to get some asynchrony support,
use NSURL connection instead.
If, on the other hand,
you need a high level of customization
or detailed threading and buffer control,
drop to CFNetwork.
That'll give you the extra knobs
you need to control the download.
That's all I want to
say about those APIs.
We are out of time,
so I'm just going to point out that
there are about a million references,
a bunch of documentation
and sample code available.
All of this information is
available in the disk image,
so just get the disk image and you'll see
all of this information replicated there.